.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH ox-guide 1  "ox-guide " 
.SH NAME
ox\-guide \- Print the operator handbook (orientation + pointers to the docs)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBox\-guide\fR [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
OxyMake — operator handbook
.PP
OxyMake is a content\-addressed workflow engine: declare rules in an
Oxymakefile.toml, and `ox` builds only what is stale, in dependency order.
.PP
The core loop:
  ox init      scaffold a new workflow (Oxymakefile.toml + .oxymake/)
  ox lint      validate the Oxymakefile before running
  ox plan      show what would execute, without running it
  ox run       execute the workflow, ensuring requested outputs exist
  ox status    inspect the current run (counts, failures, progress)
  ox explain   show the full dependency chain for a target
.PP
Where the canonical docs live:
  \- CLI reference     `ox help` (per\-command `ox help <cmd>`), `man ox`
                      (and `man oxymake`, the alias binary).
  \- Concepts & guides the mdBook under docs/book/ (start at introduction.md).
  \- Contributing      CONTRIBUTING.md — the single source of truth for the
                      Definition of Done and the contribution workflow.
.PP
Machine interfaces: most subcommands accept \-\-json; `ox run \-\-json` emits
NDJSON events. See `ox help` for the full list.
.PP
Development is cosmon\-driven: the maintainer\*(Aqs agent orchestrator. Run
`cs help` (and `cs help guide`) for that workflow.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
