.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH ox-run 1  "ox-run " 
.SH NAME
ox\-run \- Execute a workflow, ensuring requested outputs exist
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBox\-run\fR [\fB\-j\fR|\fB\-\-jobs\fR] [\fB\-\-rule\fR] [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-report\-json\fR] [\fB\-n\fR|\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR] [\fB\-k\fR|\fB\-\-keep\-going\fR] [\fB\-\-note\fR] [\fB\-\-set\fR] [\fB\-\-executor\fR] [\fB\-\-partition\fR] [\fB\-\-account\fR] [\fB\-\-qos\fR] [\fB\-\-slurm\-api\fR] [\fB\-\-ray\-address\fR] [\fB\-\-follow\fR] [\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-file\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-cache\fR] [\fB\-\-cache\-validation\fR] [\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-verbose\fR]... [\fB\-\-until\fR] [\fB\-\-omit\-from\fR] [\fB\-\-touch\fR] [\fB\-\-forcerun\fR] [\fB\-\-profile\fR] [\fB\-\-timings\fR] [\fB\-\-open\-dashboard\fR] [\fB\-\-memory\-budget\fR] [\fB\-\-warm\-workers\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fITARGETS\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Execute a workflow, ensuring requested outputs exist
.PP
OxyMake writes all outputs atomically (temp\-then\-rename) so a crash never leaves partial files. Cache keys include content hashes of inputs.
.PP
Scripts are responsible for domain validation: if a script exits 0, OxyMake trusts the outputs are valid and caches them. See docs/design/output\-integrity.md for the full contract.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-jobs\fR \fI<JOBS>\fR [default: 1]
Maximum concurrent jobs (must be at least 1)
.TP
\fB\-\-rule\fR \fI<RULE>\fR
Filter by rule name (exact or /regex/)
.TP
\fB\-\-json\fR
Output NDJSON events
.TP
\fB\-\-report\-json\fR \fI<PATH>\fR
Write NDJSON events to this file (one JSON object per line)
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
Show what would run without executing
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-keep\-going\fR
Continue on independent branches after failure
.TP
\fB\-\-note\fR \fI<NOTE>\fR
Annotate this run
.TP
\fB\-\-set\fR \fI<KEY=VALUE>\fR
Override config or resource values
.TP
\fB\-\-executor\fR \fI<EXECUTOR>\fR [default: local]
Executor backend
.TP
\fB\-\-partition\fR \fI<PARTITION>\fR
SLURM partition (only with \-\-executor slurm)
.TP
\fB\-\-account\fR \fI<ACCOUNT>\fR
SLURM account (only with \-\-executor slurm)
.TP
\fB\-\-qos\fR \fI<QOS>\fR
SLURM Quality of Service (only with \-\-executor slurm)
.TP
\fB\-\-slurm\-api\fR \fI<SLURM_API>\fR
slurmrestd API URL for REST mode (only with \-\-executor slurm).

When set, the SLURM executor uses the REST API instead of CLI commands (sbatch/sacct/squeue). Example: http://localhost:6820
.TP
\fB\-\-ray\-address\fR \fI<RAY_ADDRESS>\fR
Ray dashboard address (only with \-\-executor ray, default: http://127.0.0.1:8265)
.TP
\fB\-\-follow\fR
Submit DAG to remote executor and stream progress (only with \-\-executor ray)

Without \-\-follow, `ox run \-\-executor ray` submits the DAG and returns immediately. With \-\-follow, it submits and then polls until completion.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-file\fR \fI<FILE>\fR [default: Oxymakefile.toml]
Oxymakefile path
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-cache\fR
Disable the content\-addressable cache (re\-execute everything)
.TP
\fB\-\-cache\-validation\fR \fI<STRATEGY>\fR
Cache validation strategy: mtime, mtime+hash (default), or hash

`mtime` checks timestamps only and never verifies content — opt\-in only, avoid on shared caches. `mtime+hash` re\-hashes a file only when its timestamp or size changed. `hash` always verifies content.

Resolution order (highest wins): this flag, the OX_CACHE_VALIDATION environment variable, `cache_validation` under `[config]` in the Oxymakefile, `cache_validation` in `~/.config/oxymake/config.toml` (or `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/oxymake/config.toml`), then the built\-in default `mtime+hash`.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Verbose output (\-v: job start/end/duration/exit codes, \-vv: also show stdout/stderr)
.TP
\fB\-\-until\fR \fI<TARGET>\fR
Run only up to this target (include target and all its dependencies)
.TP
\fB\-\-omit\-from\fR \fI<TARGET>\fR
Omit this target and all its downstream dependents
.TP
\fB\-\-touch\fR
Mark outputs as up\-to\-date without running (like make \-\-touch)
.TP
\fB\-\-forcerun\fR \fI<RULE>\fR
Force re\-execution of jobs matching this rule, regardless of cache (repeatable, exact or /regex/)
.TP
\fB\-\-profile\fR \fI<NAME>\fR
Named profile to apply (defined in [profile.NAME] sections of the Oxymakefile)
.TP
\fB\-\-timings\fR
Print per\-phase timing breakdown to stderr
.TP
\fB\-\-open\-dashboard\fR
Open dashboard in browser after submitting DAG (Ray executor)
.TP
\fB\-\-memory\-budget\fR \fI<SIZE>\fR [default: 0]
Maximum bytes of in\-memory materialization before eviction triggers.

When set to a non\-zero value, the scheduler keeps critical\-path output data in memory (Stage 2 optimization) and evicts the largest outputs first when the budget is exceeded (Belady optimal eviction).

Accepts human\-readable sizes: `512M`, `1G`, `2G`, `0` (disabled). Default: `0` (disabled — all data flows through disk).
.TP
\fB\-\-warm\-workers\fR \fI<MODE>\fR
Enable warm Python workers for call\-mode jobs (Stage 5).

Modes: \- `fork`: fork\-after\-import (state isolation, but JAX JIT cache lost) \- `persistent`: same process reused (JIT cache persists, risk of state leak)

Omit to disable warm workers (cold subprocess per job).
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
.TP
[\fITARGETS\fR]
Target files or patterns to build
.SH EXTRA
Exit codes:
  0  all requested jobs succeeded (or were already cached)
  1  at least one job failed, or a runtime error occurred
  2  command\-line usage error

Machine output:
  \-\-json emits NDJSON events on stdout (one JSON object per line);
  \-\-report\-json <path> writes the same stream to a file. Event types are
  listed under `ox subscribe \-\-help`.
